---
layout:     post
title:      BQ
date:       2019-10-04 09:00:00
author:     "Shane"
excerpt:    ""
header-img: "img/bg-mac.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - BQ
---
https://crane-yuan.github.io/2016/08/15/The-map-of-java-sorted-by-value/

# Your weakness
To be honest, my speaking English is not fluent. But I am trying to overcome it by following up some tutorials on youtube and making friends with native speaks. Although it is far away to be as fluent as a native speaker, I would never give up.

# What is your current workflow
My workflow is kind of agile development. It is an iterative and team based approach. Basicaly, time is split into phases called ‘sprint’. Typically the span of a sprint is one week. At the start of sprint, teammates would meet together and negotiate the running list of deliverables. All deliverables would be prioritized by business value. Once a functionality is done, I have to design a unit test and notify others to review my code. The system would automatically check the code style and report conflict with other branches. The feature cannot be merged into the production branch until all those stuff are done. If all features cannot be completed, work is reprioritized at the future sprint.
Pro: customer could early see the work and make decisions.
Drawback: refactoring.

# What conflict?
Yeah, I never have a major one but conflicts definitely occurs in some scenarios. Generally, I would meet with my teammate or boss, be a thoughtful listener to understand their concerns and provided my solution. If compromise cannot be reached, I would documented the conversion, include the item on which we didn’t agree and my solution. Finally, I would submit it to my boss.

I wanna share a conflict with my advisor during my summer research at Singapore. Well, my research focused on multi-task neural network for text classification. We were disagreed on what kind of neural networks should be introduced at shared layer for. At first, I preferred the RNN because it is very popular in the field of machine translation and it could capture the long dependency of words in sentences. But my advisor suggested me to use CNN. He said my task is to detect the sentiment polarity, and objectivity simultaneously. In other words, those tasks are classification problem and CNN fits classification problem. I thought his theory was kind of reasonable but was still specious about it. Thus I came back to set up an experiment to compare the performance. Finally, the result proved that the assumption of my advisor was true. I reported it to my advisor. He was happy for my critical thinking and suggested me to write the experiment result into my paper to make the conclusion more rigorous. So you see, the conflict is not always bad and sometime even brings a positive impact if you deal with it a right way.

# Self-introduction
I am a computer science master student and will graduate by May next year. I’m skilled in Java and my career goal is to become a software architect. This summber, I took a backend internship at Alibaba, where I built an intelligence platform to accelerate AI with sprint boot and distributed middlewares. This internship really help me make a progress in programming. And I have a closer understanding of the production workflow and how to do teamwork. Besides, I had some side projects about developing web app and infrastructure projects done by Java and C. In addition, I am willing to learn advanced techniques like neural network and even published paper about multi-task deep learning. In summary, I am a fast learner, a good team player. I believe I could grow fast with the engineering team if I am fortunate to pass interviews.

# Project
I wanna talk about the project done during my internship at Alibaba. It helped me learn senior techniques and understand the teamwork better. Let me introduce the background first. Alibaba has great AI teams in good place. But it is challenging to translate the efforts into business outcome in near real time. Date engineer, data scientist and product developers use disjoint tools. It makes collaboration harder. My team mission is to fully automate the workflow by connect different kinds of platforms and unify pipeline. Finally, our platform empowered the coupon team to reduce 1 week for developing recommendation functionality. In the team, I am responsible to bridges offline train module with other upstream and downstream. Specially, I have to achieve parameters of preprocessing and algorithm model, trigger training and send the model to clients. I adopted may senior techniques like design patterns and microservices to make the code succinct and extendable. More than that, I develop a great sense of what works for the business, breaking down a large task into manageable pieces and collaborating with teams to achieve those goals. More than that, I had a closer understanding of team work. During the intern, I tried to be a thoughtful learner to clarify what front engineers need and what functionality could I provide. One efficient way I think is to make the code formative and draw professional diagrams to let others immediately know the code structure, the component and the dependence with each other. 

# Why company

## Thumbtack
Removes many pain points in hiring local professionals and changes the way life operates. Life seems like an non-endless to do list. Repair devices in your room, shoot a video for presentation, plan a wedding, a lot of stuff. Previously, when people wanna find professionals, they would often pay fees to consultants and let them to find fit candidates. But on thumbtack, people could hire professionals for almost anything and pay free. It’s a tremendous stride and I believe the perspective is promising.

## Databricks
Databricks created from Apache Spark and now is collabrating with Azure and AWS. I have watched videos about the production called unified analytics platform. It simplify data engineering, unifies people. Data engineers could build data pipeling unifying both stream and historical datas. Data scientists could build model using various frameworks in one place while businees analytists could consume dashboard in near real time. In other words, it accelerate AI and innovations. For me, it is really ground breaking and may change the way AI business operates. The prospect is a whole lot promising.


